When creating content or
conducting trend research,
there are times when you want to collect and utilize SNS data. However,
SNS data is difficult to
crawl with dynamic websites or simple http requests, and even if you
crawl it by writing code yourself, if you crawl it frequently,
IPs may be blocked or
maintenance may be very difficult.
So today, we will learn how to crawl
various SNS platform
data and utilize it for data analysis using Make and Paman without coding. Please
watch the video until the end and collect various SNS platform
data yourself and utilize it.
First, it would be good to look at the specific
target of crawling and the process.
First, the
target of crawling today is when we have already
decided on a specific channel that we are interested in.
If we want to search based on a keyword that we are interested in rather than a specific channel, we will
divide it into two and crawl it all.
And for the platform, we
will collect data from four platforms: YouTube, Instagram, TikTok, and x9 Twitter, which are the most popular social network platforms in Korea. Let's take a quick
look at the workflow. First, in the first scenario, we will
proceed with data crawling from various SNS platforms.
In the second scenario, we will  Let's proceed with
data analysis based on the crawled data.
First,
if you look at the first workflow, there may be
data that we have already crawled,
so we will first load that data.
This is to filter out overlapping data
when we proceed with crawling later,
so that data is not accumulated in duplicate.
Next, we will load the
keyword values ​​that we want to crawl from the sheet.
It could be the URL we talked about earlier,
or it could be a keyword.
Based on those values, we will
proceed with crawling by platform using the P-file.
Then, we
will load the crawled data into Make, and after
loading, we will update the information in the sheet.
Then,
in the second scenario, we will load the updated data in the sheet,
perform data processing, analyze the cgpt ES, and process the
analyzed content again and
update the sheet.
In this order, we will proceed with the crawling task.
Then, go to Make.com,
create a new Rio, and turn
on the screen like this. For reference,
today is  I'm going to
proceed under the assumption that you know the basics of Make,
so if you
need an explanation of the basic usage of Make, it
would be good to refer to the Make tutorial videos that I've made before. Okay, so first, we
need to import the existing crawling data. Okay,
let's take a look at the sheet structure to import it. I've
created three worksheets as an example.
I
'll put a link to this example sheet in the video description so that you can refer to it.
Come in and don't ask for editing permission here, but there's a
button to make a copy from the file. Use this make a copy
button and copy this column structure as it is and
practice together. If you take a
closer
look at the worksheet, first, in the worksheet called Crawling Target,
we've organized the information on which
keywords we'll crawl based on. We've
distinguished whether we'll do URL-based crawling or keyword-based crawling. We've
distinguished the platforms as YouTube, Instagram, and TikTok x. We'll
show you the crawling keywords later.
We'll show you the values ​​for which keywords we'll actually search in the file.  It
was put in in advance,
and the analysis target is which
company or which keyword these keywords are being
analyzed for, and we have classified them separately.
Today, we will
bring in data from the channels of Starbucks and Nike, global companies that are uploading content on various platforms. In the case of keywords, since it
is winter these days, many people are interested in long padding or
humidifiers.
So, we will collect
SNS data for these two keywords.
And
in the crawling data worksheet,
we have created a worksheet that collects data based on keywords of interest and
updates the sheet.
So, if you look at the contents, you can see when it was updated, the
classification is based on the platform keyword and which
keyword was used, and
if you can get the number of subscribers and followers, you can get it. And the
basic information related to the content, such as the upload date, content ID, title, views, comments, likes,
videos, or content URLs, of course, you will
need them. So, we have divided the columns like this.
And the data analysis
worksheet is a sheet that updates the
data analysis based on the crawling data collected later.
So,
first, in order to remove duplicates from the existing crawling data,
first, crawl the
data.  You have to import it. You
have to import the crawling data sheet. I'll delete some of the content and
leave it at that.
Then, I
want to import the sheet data.
Rather than filtering, I want to import all the data that falls within that range.
So in that case, go to the sheet module and
select get range values. So,
select this. For the sheet, select the
SNS crawling sheet that I created.
We
want to import from the crawling data. And we
'll import the data from the blue level to the content ID. This content
ID is the most important column.
We'll remove duplicate data later based on the ID value. You can import it because
the
column is included. I'll
import it like this and select up to F. The
header is the first row. We
don't need the first row, so I'll work with B2.
B2. Now, I
've set it up to ten thousand. If you run it once, you'll
see 19.
So now, each bundle is
created for each row. So the data is
like this.
When we set the duplicate removal filter later,
when there is newly crawled data, it's the
entire content here.  You want to check if
there is a single value included in the ID,
so
rather than dividing it like this, it is better to merge the content ID
values ​​into one.
So when you want to merge this, you
can use the ray regulator.
In the flow control, do the array regulator, and
of course, in the source module, get
range values. And here, you can
merge it with the content ID value.
Set it like this,
click OK, and run it again. You
can see that the 19 values ​​were each divided, but they are included in one array.
So if you do this, you can easily compare and filter the
crawled values ​​for each ray later.
So create it like this.
Next, you need to call the
keyword values ​​that you will actually crawl from the sheet.
So we
will proceed with that task. Of course, you
need to create a sheet module again. Here, this time, I will
do search rose. I will do set
rose.
This time, there is a crawling target.
Click on the crawling target. Then, filter it and
only get cases where the classification value exists.
So
click exist. So
only if there is a classification.  We will fetch rows and
specify the order to fetch in the order in which they are in the row number row. The
limit is only about 20.
We have crawled
up to 17, so we will fetch up to 20.
Set it like this and save it.
Then, if we run it again,
we will bring all the values ​​we will crawl in the output
as a bundle. We can
proceed with crawling these. However, as you can see here, the
URL keyword and the
crawling method will be different for each platform.
Therefore, we need to set them differently in the PA.
In that case, you
can create a router. A router
is a kind of if condition. You can set it by dividing it into conditional statements, such as “
run this in case A,
run this in case B, run this in case C.”
However, if we think about it, we can
divide it by URL qu keyword first, and then
divide it by platform. You
can create one, two, or three routers like this.
Depending on the case, that may be better.  It might be useful, but
right now we
have a fixed number of platforms anyway, and these
conditions aren't that complicated.
It's just URL, keyword, platform,
so we can divide it by that, so instead of making three like this, we'll
combine them all into one.
Then, we can
save some of the router's operation cost and
be more efficient.
So, we'll make only one router.
Click on Add and press Flow Control Router. Then, it's
basically divided into two.
Our current platform is four URLs and four
keywords, so you can make a total of eight
here and connect them.
First,
let's set up crawling based on URL on the YouTube platform. Before that,
let's name the modules. Right-click here and
say Delegate. You
can change the names of the modules here.
The first is to check the crawling data
ID. The second is to get the crawling target.
Next,
let's set up the filter here. I
want to send only the URL YouTube crawlers to this side.
Of course, in the rolling target check, the
classification should be URL. The
platform should be YouTube.  Here's how to set it up.
Then, if the blue value is URL and the
platform is also URL, it will
come over here.
In the rest, it will go to now. First, let's
set up the URL YouTube crawling site.
Now,
in order to crawl, we will use a service called Pa.
Simply put, FIFA
generates code when we crawl and
runs a script. Pa is a service that helps
people who don't know much about code to easily set up and
crawl by turning that crawling code into a service. If
you are curious about the specific usage of Pa, it would be good to refer to the previous video.
Today, we
will use it right away. Then,
select the FIF module here and connect it.
Before connecting, let's first
go to the F5 website and set it up. If you go to
ff.com and
sign up,
there is a place called FIF Store.
We want to crawl YouTube data first.
Then, if you type in YouTube,
there are various scrapers that have already been created.
We can choose the one we want and
use. We will now
use the first scraper that most people are using. Now,
Since this is the actor we will be using, if you
click on the star icon here and add it to your favorites, you can
find it quickly. For
reference, when you practice, you should be aware that in the
case of SNS crawlers, there are many models that charge a fee
based on the results used, such as Paper Reit in Pi.
Here, in the case of YouTube scrapers,
if you look, it
says that $5 is charged when 1,000 videos are
retrieved. So, if you think about it based on the exchange rate of about 14,400 won, it is about 7 won per video. However, this is not charged right away when we run it. It is charged when we reach 000 videos. So, you do
n't have to pay any money for practicing a few
videos right away. However,
when you reach 1,000 videos, you have to pay $5.
And
separately from this, when you run files, you
may incur computer or storage costs. The
cost for those is charged below. FIFA
basically provides up to $5 per month for
free. So, you are
not crawling in bulk, but
collecting only a small amount of data.  When is the time? You
can usually use it for free, so I
think it would be good to refer to that. So in today's practice, we will
mostly use paperless models, but
since we will not be bringing in 1,000 videos, you can
think of it as not incurring any immediate costs.
However, if you want to continue to use it beyond this, you will
need to check the amount. So
here, we will set up the data that we will crawl.
We
will set up YouTube URLs, Starbucks Korea and Nike Yogurt.
So if you look here,
there is an option called Direct URL.
In order to save this paper result value,
let's set one first.
Direct URL is not set as a filter, and the
date range is
significant when setting the channel URL.
Here, I will set the value to around 180 days.
So I will set it to bring in only data from 6 months and to
bring in new videos first.
Then, save it. After setting it like this, I
set it to bring in only two videos at most.
Anyway,
in the process of testing, we will not necessarily need to bring in a lot of data.
So, one is
a bit.  It's a pity, so I set up two videos like this, and
then when you press start once,
if you look at the log here in the pie, the crawler runs and
gets the data. We've
got two data like this, and the roller is already
finished. But we
don't want to receive data from the pie like this. We
want to receive data from this make scenario and process it. In
that case,
there are two ways to set it.
First, as I showed you earlier, you can
run it in the scraper, or
there's something called a schedule here.
Since it's intuitive, you can
create a schedule here by clicking Create New.
So I can create a schedule here and
set it like Weekly. Then, when the
actor runs here, it
detects that it's running and
gets the data when it runs.
Or, we
can make the scraper itself and run it.
We're going to mainly use the second method today.
So we
tested it here and confirmed that it's running well. If you
look at Run here, you
can see what we ran before.
Here, like this.  We have confirmed that the output is generated properly.
Now, we will run this in Make.
To run it in Make, we will
create it here in YouTube crawling.
Please select the FIF module. There
is something called Run on.
Please select this. Then,
when you initially set up FIF, you
need to add it and create a connection by entering the API token. For the API token,
go to Settings here. There
is API Integration. Here,
create a new token to
create an API key. Copy this and enter it. Once you enter it, if
you have already
tested it once or have enjoyed doing something, it will
appear in the actor list. We
ran the YouTube scraper earlier. Please
select this. Next, there
is Input Jason. This is the most important. If you
enter a setting value here, this
actor will be run based on this Jason option.
So, for example, if
we enter an option here to crawl
video data for YouTube channels like Starbucks or Nike, this
crawler will run based on that.
Okay, you can just put it here.
Then how do I
put this in? If you go into FIFA and go
into the scraper again,
we've already set it up here.
After setting it up, there's something called manual, and there's
Jason and options. If you
click on options, the option values ​​are listed in the Jason format. If you
look here, Max Ritt is
set to bring in only the two videos, and Starbucks
Korea is listed in the start. This is how we
convert the values ​​we set up manually into the Jason format.
Select all, copy, and put them here. You
can paste them like this. If you put them in
like this, it
's not very nice to look at, so it's
inconvenient to maintain later. So
don't put them in as they are. There
's a site I know called jsf.org.
Come in here and paste them on the left.
Then, if you
click on the button called form beautify, it'll
organize it nicely like this. If you
copy what's on the right and
put it in the input Jason, you
can check the contents a little more nicely. You
can run this as it is, but the reason we use make is because of
this keyword value.  The target of our crawling
can keep changing,
so we will change the value from Starbucks Korea
to the sheet value from this Make. Delete it and
map the crawling keyword like this instead. If you
do this, all the
URL blueing items on the YouTube platform will
move to this side.
Each one will proceed with the crawling task according to the input Jason option.
Now, we have set up the actor, but
running the actor does not mean we can receive data.
So, you need to
set up one more module and
set up the get dataset items.
And
there is a value called def dataset item in the dataset child.
Select this. And now, I will
set the limit to about five.
Then, we will run the crawler with the Ron actor and
receive the run value from the get dataset ice. If
you set up to this point, we
can actually use the crawled data in Make.
Save it once.
Then, let's test crawling only the Starbucks YouTube data.  Let's
try it. Then, I'll set
the limit to four. I'll set it to four
and run it again. Then, if you
look here, this crawler ran well. It
ran, but if you
look at the dataset items module, the output bundle is 0.
So, no data was output.
Why is that? It's
not that the crawler didn't run. It's that this
ran and this ran at the same time.
So, this crawler has
n't finished collecting data yet, but it
received the item with this dataset ID right away.
So, of course, nothing will be accumulated. So,
go to the Ron actor and there's an
option called Run synchronously.
You should use this as an example. When the
crawler is finished running, it will
receive the data. Now, you
can properly retrieve the data. Let's
run it. This time, it doesn't
run simultaneously. It runs the crawler with this first. When the
crawler is
finished running, it will receive the value.
Now, as you can see, the data is
retrieved properly.
Since it asked for two videos,
two bundles were created and the YouTube
video information was crawled and retrieved in them.  You can
see, but what
we need to consider here is that
we set it to receive one crawling keyword at a time,
but we tested it with one URL now, but if you
change it back to 20, there are
two YouTube-related URLs now,
but later we
can crawl five or ten. The problem
with setting it this way is
that if we have to crawl 10 YouTube URLs,
we turn on the crawler,
collect one URL, turn off the crawler, and when the next URL comes in, we turn on the actor, crawl, turn off the actor, turn on the
next URL, and turn it on and
off. If there
are 10 URLs, we
have to run each actor.
This is naturally inefficient. If
we work on a computer, turn on the computer,
write a document, turn off the computer, turn it on again, write
a document, turn it off, and
so on, there
is a ratio. It would be
nice if we could run them all at once.
So, so that we can process multiple things dynamically,
if two come in, we can
run two at once, and
if three come in, we can run three at once.  It is efficient to
set it so that it can proceed.
In order to do that, you
first need to check how the input JSON file is created in the parser when multiple URLs are entered. Please
enter the scraper and
select manually and try putting in the direct URL Nike
URL. Please
put them in together. Then, if you
look at the JSON file, you can see that it is implemented in the format where the start URL key
value is separated by a comma and the URL medyo is
connected by two values. You can see that
this itself is wrapped in brackets at the end.
So, if we can
create it in Make and put it in the input JSON, we
can scroll multiple URLs at the same time. Then, you can do that.
If
there are multiple bundles like this and you
want to combine them in a specific format, you
can easily do it by using a text aggregator. So, I will
show you how to do that.
Before running the crawler in FIFA, you need to
combine them first and then put the input JSON here.
So,
unlink this again and create it here.  Let me do it. I
know Tools a Text Ligator. Select that. You
need to merge it by taking it from the crawl target check sheet.
Here, you can enter the format for the merge.
Click on Adv Settings. You
can enter the format for the merge. It will be entered like this. If you
look here, you need to surround the URL with double commas. The
crawling keyword is
entered, followed by a comma and the method get. It is
structured like this. So, you can set it like this. Then, if
there are multiple crawling keywords,
each value will be merged into one format.
However, if you think about it when merging, the
structure is that
when there are multiple, they are connected with a comma. So, in
Advanced Settings, set ES Low
Separator to More and
enter a comma as the separator. Then,
this will be connected with a comma. If you
set it like this, we
can merge multiple items.
Then, this should be attached like this.
Next, this filter should not be set here.
Now, you need to set it in the front.
URL YouTube Crawling Blue
URL Platform YouTube Set it like this,
and then go into Input J here and
now we've combined it into this text,
right? Just put this in. But you don't need the whole thing, just put the text in. Because
we've already prepared the combined text,
just put this in like this, and the
brackets
wrap it around like this.
Then,
create this according to the number of aggregator beards, and
connect the format with a comma.
We've set the limit to 20, so we'll
get them all. Now, there
are two URL YouTube links. So
both Starbucks and Nike will be
crawled properly. After that, let's do a
Run Once again and try it.
As you can see, four
bundles have been created. So we've
received four pieces of data by doing two each.
Now, you can update this in the sheet. The
easiest way is to select Adder in Google Sheets here, and
then go to Crawling Data and update it.
Here, select from the update date.  You can
just put them in.
For example, for the classification, we'll
put in platform data like
YouTube. For the
update date, go to the date here and
put it in as Now. We'll
change this to the format we want.
Put in the format date,
put in a semicolon, and do it like this. It'll be
2025 0101.
In this way, you can
map the values ​​you want one by one with the data ring data we brought. For example, for the
subscriber follower, there's the number
of subscribers here. You
can specify all the values. If you say you've specified them and
run it again, it'll update the sheet.
But
in order to filter the existing data,
we brought in the rolling data ID
values. It would be good to
compare them right after bringing in the filter value.
So
you can set the filter here. You can do a cell-up
filter to check for duplicate content.
There's an array value. The content IDs are in this array value.
But if you just click this, the
problem is that each content
ID has only one meaning.
So if you want to select all of them,
select the upper level array above and
use the format called map.
In this,
if you put the mouse cursor on the content ID, a value of 4 will appear. If you
put 4 as the row value as the ID, it will receive all the values
in the column with the content ID row value of 4 in this array.
So if you set it like this, all of the
content ID values ​​that we have will be
loaded.
Then, you need to compare it with the
array operators below,
so does not contain.
So it doesn't contain. It
says what doesn't contain. There is an ID value. If the
ID value is not entered, it will
come over and update the sheet. I'll
change the name.
Here's another tip. Right now, let's say
we're called Ether Row.
Right now, there are four.
If four of them pass all the filters, they will be
stacked one by one.
But if you update like this, the
bad thing is that if you don't have four videos, for example, you
brought in 100,
then it will
access the sheet one by one and update it. So,
in the upper right corner,  The
number that pops up is 100.
But now, in the case of Make, if you
use the free version, you can only
use up to 1,000 operations for free.
Even if you use the paid version,
the cost increases as the number of operations increases.
So
when you bring in a lot of data, it would be better to
combine them all at once and
do a bulk update instead of adding rows like this.
Then, even if you access the sheet API only once and
update 100 pieces of data, only
one operation is required.
So it is better to do a bulk update like this. If you do
that,
don't update the sheet right away.
Use the array aggregate you know to first merge the bundles received from here.
In the sheet module, instead of Ether Row, there is something called Rose in the bulk.
You can do a bulk update with this.
Go to the ID finder and
enter the sheet name in the keyword.
Then, it will automatically find the sheet.
After finding it, if you turn off the sheet name map, you
can select it like this. We
want to put it in the crawling data sheet.
Enter A2 Z and here,
Rose's bulk.  Here, you
select the array to update. The
array aggregate right in front is
going to be imported as a value.
So, you can select the array and
click OK.
Save it. Then, when you
come to the array aggregate, the source is
Get Data. Here, you will
combine the crawling data values ​​imported,
so select this. This
is the target structure type. You can select Google Sheet Loss.
To do this, the important thing is that you
cannot select it first. You must
first connect the Bulk Ed Lowes Sheet module. After
connecting it,
specify the array value of Loss here. Then, you must
go to the array aggregate again and
select the structure here.
Otherwise, this will
not appear. So, I think it would be good to be careful about that.
After connecting it like this,
there are values ​​here. If you
add this like this, the column
values ​​will appear like this. These columns
are SNS sheets. Each column means each column. You
can specify which value you want to map to each column here. If you specify it,  Bulk
update contents are
combined based on the column values ​​and combined contents are
updated in one sheet.
When doing this, it is important to
set the filter here first. It would be good to
check for duplicate content.
Then,
only the non-duplicated ones are filtered from the crawled data and
combined. Now, we
need to set the column values ​​here.
Let's fill it out while looking at the sheet.
Now, the first is the update
date reservation. It will be the value that comes out like before.
Let's format it like this. Next, the
classification value will be entered as YouTube. The
third keyword value is called input. The
input is what we
searched for. The
fourth is to select the number of followers. The
fifth is the upload date.
Enter the date and format it in the same way.
Next, the content
ID. You need to enter this well so that you
can filter it later. Duplicate check.
Next, the seventh is the title. Hair removal. The eighth is the number of views. The
ninth is the comment. The tenth is
the like. The eleventh is the
duration. The text of the content description.
Next, the video URL. The image
URL.  You can leave the thumbnail URL and image
description blank because there is nothing to put in.
I have specified all 14 column values ​​like this.
Then, I will filter it like this and
bring only non-duplicated ones, merge the arrays, and
update the merged ones in bulk at once.
When updating this, there is one more thing to keep in mind.
If the
merged array values ​​are empty in this sheet,
this update
will throw an error. But it is not an error.
Because if there are no values, of course, it is
right not to update. If there
are only duplicate values, so
add one more filter. Let's say it is a data presence
check. This array value.
Filter only if the value exists, and
now we will proceed with the bulk update. Let's
set the filter like this. Let's go back and
look at it again.
Now, on the left,
there is an update until January 5th, and a new action was
added. You
can see that two were added.
And because there were duplicate values, two
were excluded. Only the remaining two
were updated. Even though two were updated, a
bulk update was performed,
so as you can see here, one
operation is consumed and a bulk update is performed at once.  You
can see it.
Okay, if you've followed along so far, you've
probably gotten used to the basic structure. So, I think it would be good to get more familiar with it by configuring
various platforms in a similar way. Okay,
similarly, we're going to crawl based on URL.
Let's set up Instagram, TikTok, and so on.
Add one more router. The
filter is URL. This time, we're going to
crawl Instagram. It's a blue URL. The
platform is Instagram. And now,
when we do the second task, if we
turn it back, it won't be
good. So, if you right-click, there
's a disable route. If you
disable the
route, when we test it later, we
can test it. And
now, we've set up the filter. We also
need to merge the tools data. Tex
aggregator. You can check how to merge it
in FIFA.
This time,
in the store,
there's an Instagram scraper instead of a YouTube scraper. You
can select this one. This one has
1,000 2.3 runs.
You can see that it's a little cheaper than YouTube.
Here, let's add another URL.
Add two.
Max Ret is two. Let's
set it to 181 as the standard.
Let's set the other values.
Save and click Jason again. You can see
how it appears now.
Copy this and paste it. Re-
format ViewReby once.
Process it as Yes by clicking Run. Put it in the Instagram Spur Input
Jason first.
But for the value, we
need to create a text aggregator. If you look here, there
was a value like "Mega" earlier, but now it's gone.
Just enter the keyword and connect it with a comma.
It's a simpler structure.
Instead of this, a text value will be
entered. It's a simple keyword value,
but you need to enter a double expression. And
this is connected with a comma. You can set it like this.
Save it,
rename it, and specify it.
Then, it's connected with a comma.
All the keyword values ​​are connected and it
will run at once. I
set it to bring in up to two posts within 180 days.
Here, click Yes to return and
set it to fetch.
Then, do the same get dataset
items and select def dataset ID. I will only set the
limit to five.
After fetching, I
will merge the ray ligator in the same way. I will
merge it, but if you look now, there is
no Google Sheet option in Custom. Since I did not connect it, you can
connect it first.
Select the large erro.
Select the sheet in the same way.
Select array in Loss. Then, come back and select structure.
Here, you just need to specify the column values.
Here, you
need to check for duplicate content. If you look
now, there is nothing brought in with Get Datacell Ice,
so this does not appear. So I will return it once.
Unlink it and
leave it here and run it.
Since I have set the disable route here, the top side will not be executed at all. We
brought it well only on the Instagram side that we wanted. Since I brought in two URLs and two
posts,
four were brought in. Continue with this.
Check for duplicate content, and here, the
row value is 4 trillion.  Please
specify the container ID value like this. It will
only come over if the Instagram ID is not included. You can map it here. In the
same way, the Instagram input URL.
Since there is no subscriber/follower value here, I will pass it. I will only enter the ones that are there. For the
ID title, Instagram does
not have a separate concept of a title, so you can
enter a caption. There is usually
no separate view count, but there
may be one for videos. So I will enter the video view count if there is one.
If there is no value brought in, you do
not have to enter it. Usually, there are
more images than videos, so the
comment like video duration is only
entered if there is a video.
Add a description with the alt value. The
URL URL is important.
Since you will have to see it later, I will enter the image URL
display URL. I
think you can think of it as the counting URL. For the image description, just
enter the alt value. If you set it like this, you
will now combine the values.
At the end, it would be good to check the presence or absence of data. If you
specify it like this, the Instagram setting is
complete. If you look below here,
there is something called auto line. If you click on this, it will
be organized neatly like this. Let's
make TikTok in the same way.  I'll
do it. TikTok has a TikTok data extractor. You can
bring this.
Ah, you can put in the video URL
here, but in the
case of direct URLs, there is
no option to filter. But
profiles have a filter option.
So we want to filter, so
let's put it in with the profile ID. Let's put in the ID value like this.
Let's set the filter like this for the latest 18 days from the video. And
let's only bring in two videos, so you can copy the Jason file again.
Let's put it in with Viewri 5.
Just like that, this is also in the form of just connecting with commas. You can
specify it as text and
come to Tools and make it with commas. You can
format it as S and make the separator with a comma
like this. Let's rename it and
create a URL TikTok crawling.
I'll set it like this and just create the module in advance. I
set it to bring it from the array. Let's
cut this off and run it once to get the value and
then do it. Here, on the
Instagram side, Div.  I need to route it. I'll
only run TikTok. Oh, I did
n't check the sync example here. I'll
check it and run it again. Okay, I went
back. I went back and brought four videos. I'll
connect them. I'll check for duplicate content in the same way. I'll
pass only the ones that aren't included by ID value. I'll
select Loss first. I'll select it and map the value values. I'll
set only 13 TikTok rums in advance. The
fourth input here is followers. The
second is the fence. The upload
date is here. There's a creation time and ISO. You can
do this.
Content
ID, title, views, views, play
count, comment, dig count, like. Next,
video length, duration, description,
text again. Next, video url, web
video URL, image URL,
cover URL. I'll set it like this. And
here, in the data flow
check, set the value value.
Set it to pass only if it exists. Do it unline once.
Then, I
've set up TikTok crawling Aji. I'll set it up.
Now, you're somewhat familiar with it.
Now, find this and put it in.  If you give it to me, I'll
use Twitter Tweet Scraper Yogurt.
Enter the URL here like this and set the date and how
many you want to get.
Then, Jason will come in and
enter Beautifier and receive it. I'll select
Twitter Tweet Scraper Yogurt.
Run Syron
Yes. This time,
it's the same as the YouTube URL.
Both URL and MED are required.
Enter the text in advance and
set it like this. Yes,
you can enter it like this.
I'll use a separator comma. I brought it
here. Now, I'll rename it and
proceed with URL crawling. Also,
when you run this, you'll need to get the data.
Get the ID. Then, you can
do it here in Religator Bulk. Yes, there's
something special here. I'll
show you. I'll return xm.
If you look at this x scraper, the
date comes out, but this date value
comes out a little bit special. Since it's going to be expressed up to 1,
the day of the week is not necessary, but this
value or an unnecessary plus 00
appears here. So upload.  I want to enter a date, but I
want to process this and format it. In
that case, there's no choice but to bring in the
data, check for duplicate content, and then
process the data. So,
set three mtip variables.
Here, we'll filter for duplicate content, and
filter by ID. After filtering,
we'll add only the information we need from the created date value. All we
need
is the month, day, and time. Now, we
can format it as we want.
So, first, we split the
created date by space, and
then the
second is the month after the day of the week.
So, we'll bring in the month value. Then, we'll
bring in the second value as a coefficient, and then we
'll use something called a switch to change it to a numeric value, such as January men 1 or February 2. So,
if we have the December value, we can
use the switch to change the number to 12. We
did this.
Likewise, since the third value was 1,
you can see that the created date  The
third value divided by space is 0,
so I took that value, and the time is
next, so I took the fourth, and
then it's past the 00 type, so it
's the sixth value.
So, I divided the month, day, time, and year values
like this. After dividing them, I
'll use the array regulator to insert the values. First, I'll
put in the update date. Since the
input URL is
not given separately, I'll put it in so that it can be leaked as a user name. I'll
put in the follow count and the upload date here.
Normally, you should put it in like this in ISO format.
So,
we'll create the ISO format ourselves by dividing it.
Then, month,
day, t, time, Z.
If you do this, we'll
properly format the ISO value directly using the variable values ​​that we decomposed and saved.
We formatted it again as year, month, and 1. The
rest is the same. You can map it the same way. I
set it like this. I'll check the data format here. I
set it like this, x, azi.
The x date value  The difference was that I specified an additional tool to
modify this because it came out peculiarly, and
in fact, I
quickly went over the scraper like this because I know the structure, but in
reality, if you get the get dataset ice up to this point and there is an
odd value, you may need to do some additional preprocessing like this.
So far, we have looked at everything that can be crawled based on URL, and
now let's proceed with crawling based on keywords.
Let's start with YouTube. You
can use the same actor on YouTube. If you come in here and
look, delete the direct URL.
Delete all these values. You
can search by search term.
For example,
I'll do it with a long padding humidifier. And I'll
only get two videos. This time, I'll
get it based on the filter.
If you get it based on date, YouTube has a
lot of small channels.
So, I'll do it based on relevance and
set it to this month instead. After doing
this, you can
check it by coming into the Jason file again. The
interesting thing here is that when you do it by search term,
Unlike before, there is no such thing as Meget.
You can see that it is just connected with a comma as a keyword value. You can make it by
extracting everything as it is with Jason Porter.
For example, put in YouTube Scraper
Input Jason. Just
connect this with a comma and enter the value.
Tools. I will give you a tip.
Here, I have been making new ones like this, but you
can clone this and copy it like this.
This time,
enter the keyword text value for the keyword YouTube classification. Then, the settings that
we have already made will improve. You
can set it up a little faster. This time, set it up like this. In the
same way, get the value based on the dataset ID. For the
limit, set it to five.
Next, here as well, I
will set the large ad da in advance. Set it and
disconnect it and try it. Only
two are passing and
proceeding. I
brought in four bundles like this. You
can connect this. In the same way,
you should check the intermediate content here. I only
did what was missing in the ID value mapping and
set it up. I set it up and set it up as a custom setting.
Next, check the presence of data here and
only pass if there is a value.
Here, you just need to map the array values. Input,
number of readers, date, ID,
title,
count, thumbnail, URL, etc. I put it like this. Okay,
now the settings are
complete and I'll move on.
Next, I'll
try Instagram cooling based on search criteria.
If you look at Instagram,
there's a
search based on queries here. But it searches by hashtags and I'll try to
bring in up to two. But if you put
padding here, you ca
n't select multiple keywords. So you can
only crawl one.
Then, it comes out in JSON format like
this,
but you can't search multiple here. Then, it's
meaningless for us to merge them. Anyway,
since the actor can't receive it,
let's just add the actor right away. If
the actor can't receive multiple queries like this, you
have to consider it. So you ca
n't always use the option. You have to change it like this depending on the actor's option.
So, the
downside to this is that you can't process it all at once.
If you
do multiple searches based on Instagram keywords, you will turn on the actor every time and do
one, and then the next one, and so
on. I will
set it up again and map it.
Oh, and then
I didn't filter here. I will add a filter. I will
add a filter and
run it. Then I will
run it twice to get the values. You can connect them in the same way. In
this case,
when you search by hashtag, the top post,
such as the rate post, comes up.
We will use the short code based on the ID of the top post. We
will filter based on this. Then, when you map this, you just need to
ping it well.
Here, we will get the crawling as the keyword value. The
sheet value
is as it is
because we did not merge it. We can use the sheet value as it is in front, so we will
map it with this. All values
here will be based on the top post.
Since we
decided to use the short code in the top post, you can
enter the show code.
Comment count, like count,
video ration, and then the hashtag value,
URL, display url, and
here too.  I'll just put in the tag value like this. You
don't have to do the mapping exactly the way I do it. You can
map the values ​​you want and use them. I
've done this with Instagram. Next, I
'll bring in TikTok and use it. I'll
show you TikTok, but the search term is also
structured in a form that connects with commas.
So I'll make it in advance and go
in. Here, we
received it as a profile, and if you
go into the profile, you can search by plural based on Lee.
So I'll put in a long padding humidifier. I'll put it in and
receive two based on the top and two based on the video.
Then, these will come out. I'll
break this down and use the file TikTok. I'll
copy it again and change it to text.
Then, you can connect it in the same way. You can
create a filter here as well. Yes, run it like
this and apply this
filter to filter out duplicate
content. You
can filter by ID value. Then,
in the case of x,
what we used to use
can only be searched based on URL. So you
can look for other things. Most
In the case of V2 version, if you don't use the paid version, you
can't use it with API calls. The reason why you ca
n't use it with API calls is because we ran it
directly in Make earlier,
right? Running it directly means using the API. But that's not possible right now.
Instead, you can run it directly here. So, in this way, it's
difficult to proceed in the case of X. Here, we
said there are two ways. You can detect that the actor has returned with watch action R, and
then receive the dataset ID and
proceed by receiving data and updating it. So,
unless you're going to use a huge amount of data all the time, you don't need to use the paid version of Pa.
But now, if you
really want to crawl the X data based on keywords, you can
create a separate scenario by checking it with actor 1 in this way and
test collecting data.
So I explained the X n separate
method now, and the rest are collected by
splitting it in one router and
filtering it like this.  I
created a workflow that can be done. Then,
when you actually run it, you can enable all the routes. You can enable them
like this and
use them. Here, you
can set up a cycle. For example, you can
run it every Monday.
Then,
based on the keywords in our crawling target check, it will be divided by platform and
crawled sequentially.
We have
completed the first scenario.
Now, if you collect data like this, you
may want to analyze the data based on it using the best fit.
So,
let's try that again. This time, let's
create a new scenario and
bring only the data that applies to me as a search row. If you look at the keywords
in the SNS crawling data, you can see that I want to
filter and use only the ones that contain Starbucks. Let's say I want to use
Starbucks and
bring them sequentially based on the row number.
Let's run it once. Then,
12 pieces of data were brought in. We brought in 12 pieces of data.
We will put Chaji PT in this.
Chaji
PT, that's the composition.  Here's what you can do. We
'll first process the data so that it's easy to insert the Chaji PT. So we'll go
back into the text aggregator that we used earlier and
make it in a Jason format. We'll make the Jason
format with commas, and we
'll put the Jason format here like this. If you look here, the
upload date is the upload date, and the
platform is the blue search term, and the keyword is like this.
We'll put the definition of the Roy values ​​as the key value, and for the value value, we'll specify the values ​​of the columns that match the values ​​we got from the sheet
like this. We'll
make it in a Jason format with these curly brackets. And there
are various bundles, right? We
had 12 right now. So we'll connect them all with commas.
But you have to make one more. We'll
use set barriers. We'll use the Jason formatter. We'll
wrap the text value in square brackets.
That way, it'll
be merged in a Jason format.
So, you can put the merged value in the Chaji PT. We'll
run it with the latest Chaji PT 4.
System  You can input both the user prompt and the system prompt. The
system
prompt
gives directions on how to work, and the user
prompt is the prompt that gives the actual command.
So I will include this example
on the sheet so that you can refer to it.
However, this is not necessarily the
correct answer, but I
think it would be good to use it as a reference. The most
important thing here is that when Choi Chi
PT asks to create in Jason format,
this value is
often output. However, I will specify that this should not be output in the output. I
asked for the user prompt to be written in Korean, and then I will
add one more user prompt. The most
important thing is that we need to input the actual value that we processed. We
will input the processed value in the Jason formatter. And
just in case, I will increase the torque a little.
This is how we will proceed with the analysis. After the
analysis is conducted, since we
asked to receive it in Jason format, it
will come out in Jason format. Then, you can pass it to Jason and
get the ret value. Then, we
will extract the value for better mapping. Then, we will extract it.  You can
update the value in Google Sheet.
This time, since only one value is
displayed, we do
n't need to do a bulk update. We can
update the data analysis like this. We
need to map it.
Since there is no value right now, I
'll unlink it and run it once. Then, you can
see that the value is printed well like this.
Now, you can map it here.
Keyword summary insight
recommendation. Map it like this and run it once again.
Now, it will be updated in the sheet.
You can check the summary of the content, insight, and
recommendation.
However, although we requested an analysis based on the data, we
cannot 100% guarantee that the hallucination phenomenon will not occur. So, when you
always use AI for analysis like this, you
should not believe it 100% as it is. You should check the fact
check and whether the insight is meaningful.
Today, we will
use Make and Pie to analyze
various SNS platform data
based on URL and keyword.  I
learned about crawling methods,
and I
requested data analysis using AI based on the crawled data and
updated the value in the sheet.
In the case of SNS crawling, if you crawl
data from various platforms with code, it
takes a long time to work and maintenance can be difficult. However, if you
use the maker file like this, it is a bit complicated,
but once you set it up, you can
easily collect data stably.
Of course, you should keep in mind that if you crawl
a large amount of SNS data
using files, it
will cost money. If you use it
not just out of curiosity but in a way that is good for creation, you
may feel that the cost is not that big if you consider the resources to automate and maintain it directly with code.
Therefore, if you
consider the cost aspect and determine that you will get a certain level of ROI, I
think it is an option that you can use when crawling in large quantities. This SNS
data can be very useful for content marketing or trend
analysis,
so
I think it would be good to learn how to crawl SNS data while watching this video and build a system that increases productivity. Then, I will also build a
system that can increase productivity.  I will come back to you
with a method of building it, so if
you are interested, please subscribe and like and
set up notifications.
This was Citizen Developer.
[Music]